# open.epic

> Source: https://open.epic.com

---

Join us at the [Open@Epic conference](/Conference).
 

 

 
# Epic's Home for Data Sharing and Developer Tools

 Innovation enabled through open standards.
 Patient-directed access and sharing.
 Provider access to records for whole-person care.
 Improved operations for higher quality, lower cost care.

 

 
## Data Sharing at Scale

 

 

 

 
 
### 
 8.91 billion 

 

 
annual patient records exchanged. 54% with non-Epic organizations

 

 

 

 
 
### 
 623 billion 

 

 
annual interface transactions with standards-based interfaces

 

 

 

 
 
### 
 262 billion 

 

 
annual web service transactions using Epic's publicly available APIs

 

 

 

 
 
### 
 2,637 

 

 
live apps using open.epic web services

 

 

 

 

 

 
## Let's Get Started

 

 [
 
 

 
### Step-by-Step Developer Guide

 ](/DeveloperResources)
 [
 
 

 
### Data Sharing Playbooks

 ](/Playbooks)
 [
 
 

 
### API and Interface Specifications

 ](/TechnicalSpecifications)
 [
 
 

 
### Need Guidance or Access

 ](/Contact)
 

 

 

 

 
## What's New

 

 
 
 Previous
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
We're hosting our second Open@Epic conference October 21 and 22. Open@Epic is a focused one-and-a-half-day conference for anyone looking to connect a healthcare app or service to providers using Epic software. Come learn about the free resources, technical paths, and programs available from Epic – a world of open options.

 

 
 
 

 
We have published 50+ APIs and accompanying integration playbooks in support of the CMS-0057 Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule. These APIs can be used to improve Prior Authorization and Patient, Provider, and Payer Access workflows with Epic customers.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
We've developed 12 new FHIR APIs for radiation oncology treatment delivery systems to exchange radiation treatment summaries (XRTS). Check out the new data sharing playbook for details!

 

 
 
 

 
We've published a new API that enables contact center agents to interact with a phone system's controls for accepting, placing, and transferring calls directly in Hyperspace. Check out the spec: AGL TelephoneAlert.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
We've added three new playbooks to help app developers get started with clinical and operational workflows: Validating AI Features, ED Pre-Arrival EMS Workflows, and connections to Specialty Registries.

 

 
 
 

 
Thanks everyone who joined us at our first Open@Epic conference! You can find key takeaways, announcements, and resources from the conference here.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
Epic is committed to supporting FHIR APIs to exchange the USCDI v5 data set. These APIs are under development, expanding access to data in new areas including advance directives, medication adherence, and diagnostic image ordering.

 

 
 
 

 
Over 40 developer playbooks are now available to provide guidance on connecting products for specific use cases. Each playbook includes the sequence of APIs and interfaces needed to achieve a specific data exchange workflow.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
Upcoming APIs include support for improved prior authorization flows to improve payer/provider collaboration and staff duress notifications to increase staff safety. Both are coming in February 2026.

 

 
 
 

 
Epic customers can more easily discover products that work with Epic and meet their needs in the revamped Products section of the Showroom site, which now includes additional filtering and discovery by category.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
Open@Epic is a focused one-day conference for anyone looking to connect a healthcare app or service to providers using Epic software. Come learn about the free resources, technical paths, and programs available from Epic.

 

 
 
 

 
We've published new FHIR APIs in the Epic May 2025 release. The Observation (DICOM Image Characteristics) (R4) resource allows clients to read and file imaging metadata into the database, specifically CT Dose and Image Quality Category through codeable concepts, Calculated CT size-adjusted dose through component codes, and Calculated CT global noise through component codes.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
Over 2,000 Epic hospitals and over 50,000 Epic clinics are either live or preparing to go live on the federal TEFCA framework for nationwide health data exchange. For app developers, Epic offers Individual Access Services (IAS) for secure patient record retrieval—and today, there are almost 800 patient-facing apps live and exchanging data. USCDI v3 support is available to app developers for free on open.epic alongside over 750 no-cost APIs and interfaces. Since the release of Epic's USCDI v3 APIs in 2024, they have been called over 8 billion times.

 

 
 
 

 
Epic Nexus, a TEFCA™ Qualified Health Information Network, has connected 625 hospitals since joining the framework in December 2023.

 

 

 

 

 
 
 Next
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Open@Epic Conference 2026

 

 

 
Date: 3/9/26

 
We're hosting our second [Open@Epic conference](/Conference) October 21 and 22. Open@Epic is a focused one-and-a-half-day conference for anyone looking to connect a healthcare app or service to providers using Epic software. Come learn about the free resources, technical paths, and programs available from Epic — a world of open options.

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### CMS Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule APIs

 

 

 
Date: 2/17/26

 
We have published 50+ APIs and accompanying integration playbooks in support of the CMS-0057 Interoperability and Prior Authorization Final Rule. These APIs can be used to improve [Prior Authorization](https://fhir.epic.com/Documentation?docId=cms_prior_auth_playbook) and [Patient, Provider, and Payer Access](https://fhir.epic.com/Documentation?docId=cms_access_playbook) workflows with Epic customers.

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Exchange of Radiotherapy Treatment Summaries (XRTS)

 

 

 
Date: 2/17/26

 
We've developed 12 new FHIR APIs for radiation oncology treatment delivery systems to exchange radiation treatment summaries (XRTS). Check out the new [data sharing playbook](https://fhir.epic.com/Documentation?docId=radiation_therapy_tms) for details!

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Embedded Call Controls

 

 

 
Date: 2/2/26

 
We've published a new API that enables contact center agents to interact with a phone system's controls for accepting, placing, and transferring calls directly in Hyperspace. Check out the spec: [AGL TelephoneAlert](/Operational/Other#AGLTelephoneAlert).

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### New Playbooks

 

 

 
Date: 12/18/25

 
We've added three new playbooks to help app developers get started with clinical and operational workflows: [Validating AI Features](https://fhir.epic.com/Documentation?docId=validating_ai_features_playbook), [ED Pre-Arrival EMS Workflows](https://fhir.epic.com/Documentation?docId=ed_pre_arrival_ems_playbook), and connections to [Specialty Registries](https://fhir.epic.com/Documentation?docId=registries_playbook).

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Open @ Epic Recap

 

 

 
Date: 9/25/25

 
Thanks everyone who joined us at our first Open@Epic conference! You can find key takeaways, announcements, and resources from the conference [here](/Conference?confYear=2025&f=1).

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Advancing Standards Support with USCDI v5

 

 

 
Date: 9/25/25

 
Epic is committed to supporting FHIR APIs to exchange the USCDI v5 data set. These APIs are under development, expanding access to data in new areas including advance directives, medication adherence, and diagnostic image ordering.

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Data Sharing Playbooks

 

 

 
Date: 9/25/25

 
Over 40 [developer playbooks](/Playbooks) are now available to provide guidance on connecting products for specific use cases. Each playbook includes the sequence of APIs and interfaces needed to achieve a specific data exchange workflow.

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### APIs to Expect in February 2026

 

 

 
Date: 9/25/25

 
Upcoming APIs include support for improved prior authorization flows to improve payer/provider collaboration and staff duress notifications to increase staff safety. Both are coming in February 2026.

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Showroom Websites Updates

 

 

 
Date: 9/25/25

 
Epic customers can more easily discover products that work with Epic and meet their needs in the revamped [Products section of the Showroom site](https://showroom.epic.com/stage?id=35), which now includes additional filtering and discovery by category.

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Open@Epic

 

 

 
Date: 6/1/25

 
[Open@Epic](/Conference) is a focused one-day conference for anyone looking to connect a healthcare app or service to providers using Epic software. Come learn about the free resources, technical paths, and programs available from Epic.

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### May 2025 release overview

 

 

 
Date: 5/5/25

 
We've published new FHIR APIs in the Epic May 2025 release. The Observation (DICOM Image Characteristics) (R4) resource allows clients to read and file imaging metadata into the database, specifically CT Dose and Image Quality Category through codeable concepts, Calculated CT size-adjusted dose through component codes, and Calculated CT global noise through component codes.

Check out the specs: [Read](https://fhir.epic.com/Specifications?api=11227), [Search](https://fhir.epic.com/Specifications?api=11226), [Create](https://fhir.epic.com/Specifications?api=11224), and [Update](https://fhir.epic.com/Specifications?api=11225).

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Leading the Way in Interoperability

 

 

 
Date: 3/4/25

 
Over 2,000 Epic hospitals and over 50,000 Epic clinics are either live or preparing to go live on the federal TEFCA framework for nationwide health data exchange. For app developers, Epic offers [Individual Access Services (IAS)](/Home/Interoperate/TEFCA/IAS) for secure patient record retrieval—and today, there are almost 800 patient-facing apps live and exchanging data. USCDI v3 support is available to app developers for free on open.epic alongside over 750 no-cost APIs and interfaces. Since the release of Epic's USCDI v3 APIs in 2024, they have been called over 8 billion times.

 

 

 Close
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
### Health Systems Using Epic Have Connected 625 Hospitals to the TEFCA Interoperability Framework in One Year

 

 

 
Date: 12/16/24

 
Epic Nexus, a TEFCA™ Qualified Health Information Network, has connected 625 hospitals since joining the framework in December 2023.

Read more on [Epic.com](https://www.epic.com/epic/post/health-systems-using-epic-have-connected-625-hospitals-to-the-tefca-interoperability-framework-in-one-year/).

 

 

 Close